**Need to put a standardized and easily loggable header here**

The **Cantillon Effect** is a well-backed economic theory that states, "The first ones to receive the newly created money see their incomes rise, whereas the last ones to receive the newly created money see their purchasing power decline as consumer price inflation comes about". The most recent example of the Cantillon Effect was experienced as a result of quantitative easing post-GFC. Since the crisis, financial assets have experienced a price rebound, but this has not translated to a significant increase in wealth passed on to the labor force. In this manner, the nature of the government's bailout increased income inequality. This example may be used in the future to demonstrate central bank incompetence and motivate decentralized governance. More information at [this link](https://mises.org/library/how-central-banking-increased-inequality). 

Blockchains enable decentralized communities to regulate the token supply according to a deterministic protocol. This protocol should be transparent, verifiable, and/or easily auditable. For this project, we will study how inflation effects the flow of value through token economies. It is well documented that certain projects that strive for ambitious initial growth may plan to *print* a significant number of tokens. If done correctly, this strategy could result in effective community onboarding that incentivizes useful, value-adding contributions. Even so, **inflation traps in the context of token economies** is unexplored territory. These traps would be fundamentally different from those cited by economic literature because the flow of value through a token economy is structured differently. This project will explore the risks associated with aggressive expansionary monetary policy that relies on high growth alongside high inflation. If growth starts to lag inflation, our concern is that the governance policy may be set such that reducing issuance is no longer possible.

Responsibilities:
* Read about how the Federal Reserve sets inflation (ie Phillips Curve, NAIRU, etc.)
* Understand value flows through token economies (read theories from [Jake Brukhman](http://www.brukhman.com), [Joel Monegro](http://www.usv.com/blog/fat-protocols), [Chris Dixon](https://medium.com/@cdixon/crypto-tokens-a-breakthrough-in-open-network-design-e600975be2ef), and others)
* Not really coding heavy, but students should become familiar with Git